
-  Two types of data structures :
	- Hash Tables (Unordered)
	- Trees (Ordered)
- Data Structures
	- Internal Meta-data
	- Core Data Storage
	- Temporary Data Structures
	- Table Indexes
- Design decisions
	- Data organization
	- Concurrency
- Hash Tables
	- based on hash functions
	- static hash table
		- assumptions
			- no. of elements is known ahead of time and fixed.
			- each key is unique
			- perfect hash function guarantees no collisions.
	- Hash function & Hashing scheme
	- hash function
		- For any input key, return an integer representation of that key.
		- We want something that is fast and has a low collision rate.
		- we do not want to use a cryptographic hash function for DBMS hash tables
		- Ex
			- CRC-64
			- Murmur Hash
			- Google cityhash
			- Facebook XXHash
			- Google FarmHash
	- static hash schemes
		1. Linear probe hashing
			- single giant table of fixed-length slots.
			- load factor
			- key/value entries
				- Fixed length key/values
				- Variable length key/values
			- deletes
				- Movement - expensive to rehash entire entries till next empty slot.
				- Tombstone - extra bit for maintaining a local deletion to avoid rehashing and this requires periodic garbage collection.
			- hash table - non unique keys
				- separate linked list
				- redundant keys
			- optimizations
		2. Cuckoo hashing
			- use multiple hash functions to find multiple locations in the hash table to insert records.
			- On insert, check multiple locations and pick the one that is empty.
			- If no location is available, evict the element from one of them and then re-hash it find a new location.
	- dynamic hash tables
		- dynamic hash tables incrementally resize themselves as needed.
		- Ex
			- Chained hashing
				- Maintain a linked list of buckets for each slot in the hash table.
			- Extendible hashing
				- Chained-hashing approach that splits buckets incrementally instead of letting the linked list grow forever.
				- Multiple slot locations can point to the same bucket chain.
				- its based on starting bit prefix match
			- Linear hashing
				- The hash table maintains a pointer that tracks the next bucket to split.
				- When any bucket overflows, split the bucket at the pointer location.
				- Use multiple hashes to find the right bucket for a given key.  