
-  Indexes
	- An index data structure of a subset of a table's attributes that are organized and/or sorted to the location of specific tuples using those attributes.
	- Ex. B+ Tree
- filter
	- A filter is a data structure that answers set membership queries, it tells you whether a record exists for a key but not where it is located.
	- Ex. Bloom filter
- B tree - balanced tree data structures
- B+ tree is a self-balancing ordered m-way tree for searches, sequential access, insertions, and deletions in O(logmn) where m is the tree fanout.
- B+ tree node structure 
	- node | key | node | key | node - root node
	- key | value | key | value - leaf node
- sibling pointers - same level nodes connected.
- leaf node values
	- record IDs
	- tuple data
- Operations on B+ trees
	- B+ insert
	- B+ delete
- Composite index - A composite index is when the key is comprised of two or more attributes.
	- it will be more info stored in the node
- How to handle duplicate keys
	- Append record Id
	- Overflow leaf nodes
- Clustered indexes
	- The table is stored in the sort order specific by the primary key.
	- clustered b+ tree
- Index scan page sorting
- bit map heap scan
- B+ design choices
	- Node size
	- Merge threshold
		- non balanced b+ tree
	- Variable length keys
	- Intra-Node search
		- linear - SIMD for vectorize comparisons
		- binary
		- Interpolation - only academic, no implementation
- Prefix compression
	- Sorted keys in the same leaf node are likely to have the same prefix.
- Deduplication
- Suffix truncation
	- The keys in the inner nodes are only used to direct traffic.
- Pointer swizzling
- bulk insert
- Write optimized b+ tree - fractal trees
f